here I am, starting a game jam again. it started on january 17 but I've really done little else but plan and now it is january 22. I created a high level game design document but my mind continues to wander about what the narrative could be. 

I guess that is one important thing to internalize, if I let myself just dream on branches a narrative could take forever I'll never build a game! 

really thought a lot of it is just available time. Between my dayjob and family/house commitments I have a scarce amount of time to spend on this per day. even with the alotted 2 weeks, it is not likely I'll get to a finished product. Thor, the Pirate games founder who runs the community this jam is from, gave some encouraging advice on that front from a live stream, somethign to the effect of "this is a gift of time to yourself, it doesn't matter if you finish or submit or whatever just do it and if you learn something great." Now that is a level of commitment I can get behind.

ok, I'm using godot. I have reasons for this. unreal and unity have some friction to get started and I get bogged down customizing them. I want something a little less opinionated than I imagine gamemaekr studio to be, although that product has consistently been well reviewed and seems like maybe a better first choice. Had to pick something though.

devlog day 1 which was 1/22, for ~ 45 minutes
created a godot project. created a character node following their docs. Could have sworn I've done this before but here we are, I didn't retain it I guess. high level things I learned that I should commit to memory. 

- Scene in godot is like component in other engines, kind of like a recursive-hierarchy for managing and organizing discrete things.
- when creating the player node, I was instructed to click this funny looking button that looks like a weird checkerboard with dots and kind of like one of the adobe pathfinder options for like "erase overlap." What I think it does is make it so taht if the child nodes of this scene node are selected then the whole scene will be selected, kind of like a grouping thing.
- adding a node to the hierarchy is done with command + A (I'm a mac user on this project)
- godot is helpful, it tells you when a resource type has dependencies you haven't fulfilled yet with a warning icon next to it.
- almost immediately I needed assets and was leaving the godot editor to find them. Piskel has this free browser based tool to easily construct tilemaps for pixel art. helpful tutorial here https://youtu.be/FEtFgTolOL0?si=BUABXkS2BIAA6v7I, but then realized it was talkiong about tilemaps. and also realized I was already deviating from the fastest path here. I needed a public domain licensed asset pack so that I didn't start doing an art workflow in the middle of my basic setup. Mechanics first, people! at least that will be my policy because I'm the type that could just start endlessly plunking on a piano or sketching things I like the look of or thinking about plot arcs and never make a thing, as we established earlier. Know thyself, I guess.
-  ok, going to use some Kenney assets to start with, doesn't really matter which. ended up getting their all-in-one bundle because I want to support them and because I like the idea of having several assets to prototype with. that was the end of my time window. 
- went down another kind of rabbit hole trying to use a tilemap from the kenney assets for my character instead of the individual pngs that were also provided which was more of a fit to the tutorial. it is really hard to make myself stick to the easy way of doing things lolz!

devlog day 2 1/23 for ~20 minutes

man I can tell when my brain goes on autopilot learning some of this stuff. it is when I get tripped up by the smallest deviation fromt he instructions. Godot online manual is amazing, but I get this unexpected behavior from the engine. 
whoops, created a capsule collider on top of my character sprite but it is invisible. takes me a good 5 minutes to realize it is tiny and in the corner becausae the character is actually huge and outside the viewport. idk how I'd have figured that out without a little bit of gamedev background. 
next fun thing, added a script and the template GDScript that is generated is different from what the manual has. had me wondering if I was using C# for a hot second. 
very nifty that exported variables just work. 
so just monkey see, monkey do for me with the instructions on player movement until the guide casually throws in that "of course you will want to normalize the vector2 values for x and y so that diagonal movement is not faster than horizontal movement or vertical movement combined. took my tired brain a good couple of moments to register, but makes sense. X+Y can combine to be bigger than the max x or y values so velocity could end up larger, but if you normalize them, then the scale of increasing velocities will match and will total to 1 for diagonal and sraight movement
good for you godot script taking a page out of JQuery's book and making $ sugar for a commonly used 'get_node()' function. say what you want about jQuery, that was a slick thing, until it got abused
another amazing game engine feature and benefit of making your own language. They have reified delta time. a lot of engines have that living in some object or make you roll your own. it makes sense that if the engine can know how many milliseconds it takes for a frame to get replaced it should make that available to the developer
whoops! inverted the vertical movement controlls, positive y is down. good to know
whelp! thanks to Godot's ease of use despite my best efforts with two days and just under 2 hours of actual sitting in front of an editor and despite my best efforts I actually have a sprite dude walking around my screen